Q: Show that if $R$ is the [ring of continuous functions](https://planetmath.org/ringofcontinuousfunctions) on $ℝ$ with pointwise addition and multiplication. If $R/RA$ is $R$-linearly isomorphic to $R/RB$, then $A\sim B$ ($A$ and $B$ differ from the multiplication of unit)?

***

A: **Proposition 1** Let $R$ be any commutative ring. $I$ and $J$ are ideals of $R$. If $R/I\simeq R/J$ as $R$-modules with the standard $R$-module structure, then $I=J$. In other words, **isomorphic modules have the <u>same</u> annihilators**.

*Proof of Prop 1* For isomorphic $R$-modules $\varphi: R/I\simeq R/J$ and arbitrary $x\in J$, we have that

$$
\varphi (x+I)=x\varphi(1+I)=x(1+J)=0+J.
$$

Thus $x+I\in \mathrm{ker}(\varphi)$. Since $\varphi $ is isomorphism, we have that $x\in I$. It yields that $J\subseteq I$. Similarly, $I\subseteq J$, thus we have $I=J$.

**Proposition 2** Let $R$ be any commutative ring. $I$ and $J$ are ideals of $R$. The ring isomorphism $\varphi :R/I\simeq R/J$ no longer implies $I\simeq J$. Here $\varphi$ preserves $\{+,\cdot ,0,1\}$. In other words, **isomorphic quotient rings have the <u>isomorphic</u> annihilators.**

*Proof of Prop 2* A counterexample: (1) set $R:=\mathcal C^0(\mathbb R,\mathbb R)$, $R/(x)\simeq R/(x-1)$ by translation. (2) For any commutative ring $A$, $(A\times A)/(0\times A)\simeq (A\times A)/(A\times 0)$.

**Lemma 0** This lemma may help with your initial question. Set $R:=\mathcal C^0(\mathbb R,\mathbb R)$. If we have principal ideals $(f)=(g)$, then there exists invertible $h\in R$ such that $fh=g$.

*Proof of Lemma 0* There exists $h,h'\in R$ such that $fh=g$ and $gh'=f$. Since $fhh'=f$, $gh'h=g$, we have that $hh'=1$ on $\overline{\mathrm{supp}(f)}=\overline{\mathrm{supp}(g)}$, which is the disjoint union of closed intervals.

Set $\overline{\mathrm{supp}(f)}=\mathbb R\setminus (0,1)$ without the loss of generality. Since $h$ and $h'$ are uniformly continuous on $[-1,0]$ and $[1,2]$, they are bounded. Let $h_-$ (resp. $h_+$) be the restriction of $h$ on $(-\infty,0]$ (resp. $[1,+\infty)$), so is $h'_-$ (resp. $h'_+$). We proved that

$$
S=\{h_-(0),h_-'(0),h_+(1),h_+'(1)\}
$$

is bounded. Since $h_-(0)h'_-(0)=h_+(1)h'_+(1)=1$, $0\notin S$. Define

$$
\tilde h(x)=\left\{\begin{align*}
&|h(x)|&&x\in \overline{\mathrm{supp}(f)},\\
&|h(0)|(1-x)+|h(1)|x&&x\in(0,1).
\end{align*}\right.
$$

Set $\tilde h'(x)=1/\tilde h(x)$. Here $\tilde h(x)$ and $\tilde h'(x)$ are non-vanishing and thus invertible. Then we have either

$$
f\tilde h=g\quad g\tilde h'=f,
$$

or

$$
(f-2f_+)\tilde h=(g-2g_+)\quad (g-2g_+)\tilde h'=(f-2f_+).
$$

Here we have the same ideals $(f)=(f-2f_+)$ and $(g)=(g-2g_+)$​.

***

**[$\boxed{\Longleftarrow \text{返回答疑题库}}$](https://czhang271828.github.io/QnA/Q.html)** 

