Q: Exercises.

1. (Engel) Let $S$ be a collection of line segments in the unit interval $I=[0,1)$ whose total length is more than $\frac{1}{2}$. Prove that there exist two points in $S$ that are exactly distance $0.1$ apart.
2. (Iran) Prove that in a tournament with $799$ teams, there exist $14$ teams that can be partitioned into groups in a way that all of the teams in the first group have won all of the teams in the second group.
3. (Russia) In the Duma there are $1600$ delegates, who have formed $16000$ committees of $80$ persons each. Use probabilistic method to prove that one can find two committees having at least four common members.
4. (Turán's Theorem) A graph $G$ has $n$ vertices and average degree $d$. Prove that it is possible to select an independent vertex set of size at least $\frac{n}{d+1}$.
5. Let $n \in \mathbb{N}$ and $m \in \mathbb{N}$ such that $m>0$. Let $A_{1}, A_{2}, \ldots, A_{m}$ be $m$ nonempty subsets of the set $\{1,2, \ldots, n\}$. Prove that there exists a subset $X$ of $\{1,2, \ldots, n\}$ such that $\left|A_{j} \cap X\right|$ is odd for more than $\frac{m}{2}$ different values of $j \in\{1,2, \ldots, m\}$.
6. Prove that a good classifier in Example 4 cannot describe more than $34$ plants.

***

A: **Solution to Ex 1.**

$\forall x\in [0,1)$, define $y=y(x)=\left\{\begin{align*}&x+0.1&&2\mid \lfloor 10 x\rfloor,\\&x-0.1&&2\not\mid \lfloor 10 x\rfloor.\end{align*}\right.$

Albeit dependent, both $y$ and $x$ have uniform distribution on $[0,1)$. The probability $x\in S$ is $|S|>1/2$, so is $y\in S$. As a result, $P(x\in S\land y\in S)>0$.

**Solution to Ex 2.**

Consider the tournament graph $G$, where $v_i\to v_j$ means $i$ is defeated by $j$. Of course, the adjacency matrix $A(G)$ satisfies $A(G)^T+A(G)+I=$ all-one matrix.

Now we consider a random $k$ -element subset $P$ of $V(G)=\{v_i\}_{i=1}^{799}$. Let $N$ denotes the number of teams TOTALLY defeated by $P$. Then $\mathbb EN=\sum_{v\in V(G)}\binom{\deg_{\to} v}{k}/\binom{799}{k}$. Here $\deg_\to v:=|\{v'\mid v'\to v\}|$. Since the average of $\mathbb E(\deg _\to v)$ is exactly $399$, we deduce that
$$
\mathbb E N\geq 799\cdot \dfrac{\binom{399}{k}}{\binom{799}{k}}\approx 800\cdot2^{-k}.
$$
Such partition exists whenever $\lceil \mathbb EN\rceil+k\geq 14$. Hmmm... I think the existence of the case "$13$ defeats $1$" is too trivial. However, $7$ - $7$ seems tight enough for the inequality since $800\cdot 2^{-7}=6.25\leq 7$.

$\square$

It is better to restate Question II as

> Prove that in a tournament with $799$ teams, for every partition $(14-k,k)$, there exist two disjoint groups consisting $14-k$ and $k$ teams in each group, such that one group defeated the other TOTALLY.

**Solution to Ex 3.**

I think this question has something to do with a meme called *Soviet Jokes*.

We denote all commitees by $\{i\}_{i=1}^{16000}$. Let $S$ be any two-elemented subset of $\{i\}_{i=1}^{16000}$. Let $n_k$ be the number of committees that the $k$ -th person belongs to. The probability for the $k$ -th person taking part in both two commitees in $S$ is $1/\binom{800}{2}$, this is due to each person participates in $800$ commitees in average. The expectation of the number of people belonging to each committees in $S$ simultaneously is
$$
\sum_{k=1}^{1600}\dfrac{\binom{n_k}{2}}{\binom{16000}{2}}\geq 1600\cdot \dfrac{\binom{800}{2}}{\binom{16000}{2}}\geq 3.9.
$$
Therefore, one can find two committees having at least four common members.

$\square$

**The probability method is SURPRISING if the decimal part of the expectation is close enough to $0$**. For instance,

> In the Duma there are 1600 delegates, who have formed 16000 committees of 81 persons each. Use probabilistic method to prove that one can find two committees having at least FIVE common members. Hint: We see that $1600\cdot \dfrac{\binom{810}{2}}{\binom{16000}{2}}\geq 4.09$.

**Solution to Ex 4.**

It is a well-known theorem. One can even prove the following statement by the same token: a graph with degree $d_1,\ldots, d_n$ has an independent set of size at least $\sum_{i=1}^n\dfrac{1}{d_i+1}$.

**Solution to Ex 5.** 

$\forall X\in \mathcal P(\{i\}_{i=1}^n)$, the probability $|A_k\cap X|$ is odd is $1/2$, for each given $A_k$. Therefore,
$$
\mathbb E|\{i\mid |A_i\cap X|\text{ is odd}\}|=\dfrac{m}{2}.
$$
As a result, there exists some $X$ such that $|\{i\mid |A_i\cap X|\text{ is odd}\}|=\lceil m/2\rceil$.

$\square$

Solution to **Ex. 6** is quite difficult. The least number of species that a good classifier cannot describe is called the [Plotkin bound](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plotkin_bound), which can be rephrased in the language of coding theory:

> Plotkin bound is the largest binary code with length $n$ and distance at least $\lfloor n/2\rfloor+1$?

**Solution.** We shall apply the following notations first.

- Let $H_m$ be an $m\times m$ [Hadamard matrix](https://mathworld.wolfram.com/HadamardMatrix.html), with entries in $\{\pm 1\}$, normalized so the first row and column are all $+1$.
- Let $H_m'$ be the $m\times (m-1)$ matrix given by removing the first column of $H_m$.
- Let $H_m''$ be the $(m/2)\times (m-2)$ matrix given by deleting all rows from $H'_m$ whose first entry is $-1$, then deleting the first column of what is left.

Let $S$ denotes the set of $\pm 1$ -valued vectors in $\mathbb R^n$ which $x\cdot y<0$ for every distinct pair $(x,y)$. Here one can regard $x$ as a plant with $i$ -th feature present whenever the $i$ -th entry of $x$ is $+1$, vice versea. One can distinguish $x$ and $y$ whenever $x\cdot y<0$.

Here are some constructions when Plotkin bound attains.

- When $n=4k+3$, the Plotkin bound is $4k+4$. One knows that $H_{n+1}$ is always constructable. Then let $S$ be the set of rows of $H_{n+1}'$.
- When $n=4k+2$, the Plotkin bound is $2k+2$. It can be constructed by the set of rows of $H_{n+2}''$.
- When $n=4k+1$, the Plotkin bound is $2k+2$. It can be constructed by the set of rows of $H_{n+3}''$ with any column deleted.
- When $n=12k+8$, the Plotkin bound is $4k+4$. It can be constructed by the set of rows of $[H_{4k+4}'\,\,H_{4k+4}'\,\,H_{4k+4}']\in\mathbb R^{(4k+4)\times (12k+9)}$ with any column deleted.
- When $n=12k+4$, the Plotkin bound is $4k+2$. It can be constructed by (i) Take the first $4k+2$ rows of $H_{8k+4}'$ to obtain $Q\in \mathbb R^{(4k+2)\times (8k+3)}$, (ii) Let $S$ be the set of rows of $[Q\,\, H_{8k+4}'']\in\mathbb R^{(4k+2)\times (12k+5)}$ with any column deleted.
- When $n=12k$, the Plotkin bound is $4k$. It can be constructed by (i) Take the first $4k$ rows of $H_{8k+4}''$ to obtain $R\in \mathbb R^{4k\times (8k+2)}$, (ii) Let $S$ be the set of rows in $[R\,\,H_{4k}']\in \mathbb R^{4k\times (12k+1)}$ with any column deleted.

In **Ex. 6**, $n=12\cdot 8+4$, thus the maximum number of species that a good classifier can describe is $4\cdot 8+2=34$.

***

**[$\boxed{\Longleftarrow \text{返回答疑题库}}$](https://czhang271828.github.io/QnA/Q.html)** 

